# Heart-Disease-Prediction-Using-Ensemble-learning-framwork-
Nowadays cardiovascular disease is amidst of the leading ten sources for the growing rate of morbidity and mortality worldwide, affecting roughly 50% of the adult age group in the health care sector. Heart disease claims the lives of about one person per minute in this modern era. Accurate detection methods for the timely identification of cardiovascular disorders are essential because there is rapid growth in the number of patients with this disease. The dataset contains quantitative and structured data on heart disease indicators in patients. Our goal is to understand risk factors by analyzing the dataset using exploratory data analysis. Heart disease is a long-term problem with a greater risk of becoming worse over time. In this paper, one of the ensemble learning techniques soft voting was used for the identification of disease and it achieved an accuracy of 90.21%.
#Dataset
Lack of datasets on cardiovascular disease in the health domain is the main hindrance to the prediction of heart diseases. Increased availability of datasets on heart disease may give more research scope towards heart disease detection [10]. Machine learning/deep learning algorithms require the identification of different heart diseases and image datasets. In this section, we give a brief description of statlog and Cleveland [11] heart disease datasets developed by UCI. There are 11 attributes and one target attribute. It consists of 6 binary attributes and 5 integer parameters. The sample size contains 1189 patients with 53% having remarkable heart disease indicators. The remaining47% do not meet the indicators of heart disease and thus are considered healthy.
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/heart+disease
